well howdy there internet people it's Bo
again so over the last 36 48 hours my
inbox has been filling up with questions
about how to make something quieter
they're coming from both Second
Amendment advocates and gun control
advocates both I think hoping I'm gonna
tell the other person they're wrong so I
guess today we're going to go through
all the questions and we are going to
talk about suppressors silencers we're
going to approach it the same way we did
the gun control conversation I'm gonna
give you the facts and you can debate it
in the comment section my opinion on
this really doesn't matter much okay so
the first and most common question what
exactly is a silencer a really bad name
for a suppressor doesn't make anything
silent there's a lot of myths involving
suppressors and we're gonna go through
them right now you have to understand
the science behind how they work and
what they do to understand the debate so
we're gonna start there
the average gun shot it can range in
decibels from 150 to 200 plus or minus a
little bit
the suppressors today reduce that
anywhere from 10 to 45 depending on what
type of ammo is being used what type of
weapon it's on the caliber of the weapon
and the type of suppressor all of these
things can change how much it's being
reduced the average is about 30 now when
you're just looking at the numbers that
doesn't seem like a huge reduction and
in one way it's not but it doesn't tell
the whole story unless you understand
that decibels are a log of logarithmic
system meaning 200 decibels
isn't double 100 decibels it's not twice
as loud it's more like a thousand times
as loud so a thirty decibel reduction is
pretty substantial however
even once you put the suppressor on the
weapon and fire it you're gonna get
decibels in the range of 115 to 150
hearing loss can occur at 85 115 150
this is like sitting in your car with
the stereo all the way up it's not
silent it's really not that's definitely
a misnomer so that's the the sound
silence now how do they want it's a tube
and it's baffling suppressor joke inside
the tube but there are baffles and what
these things do is they slow down
the gas that that's leaving it what's
pushing the bullet out of the barrel
slows it down and since it slows it down
it reduces the amount of bang that comes
out the end it's simple theory putting
it into practice is a little bit harder
what do they do other than make the
gunshot quieter they reduce recoil by
about a third
now if you're a sniper they're really
important because they're too shot there
are two sounds that come out of a
gunshot
one is the bang the other is a sonic
crack that's coming off of the bullet
itself as it travels through the air if
you can reduce the bang and leave the
crack as that bullet travels that noise
is bouncing off of everything around it
it makes it very hard to pinpoint the
location of the shooter it really does a
good job of masking your location this
is why in a lot of theories there's a
confusion over the number of shooters
because they're going off of what they
heard and it sounded like the shot came
from over here and another one came from
over here it's probably the same bullet
and they're experiencing the the sound
at two different times so it seems like
two bullets
they reduce the flash and in some cases
completely eliminated the muzzle flash
that comes out of the end of the barrel
the most important thing they do as far
as militarily speaking it's not the
reduction in sound it's that it changes
the sound it doesn't sound like a
gunshot anymore and if you're out
somewhere where there's ambient noise in
an urban area or even here with the
grasshoppers and crickets that noise if
you're just letting off one shot that's
gonna sound like anything other than a
gunshot your your mind will attribute it
to something else so it doesn't get
reported so it doesn't raise an alarm
that's why they're really important for
the military how are they used illegally
they're not not in any statistically
significant way you can bind legally in
the US the process last person that I
know they got one it took them about
eight months to get the tax stamp and
the paperwork through the ATF and all of
that
the ATF knows you have it and that
there's a lot of them there's a lot of
them and the statistics as far as how
often they're used in crime it's
normally about 40 a year those aren't
even all violent crimes but even if you
took all of them you're looking at 0.003
percent of silencers are used in a crime
it's it's doesn't happen very often
yes advanced and sophisticated organized
crime they use them smugglers use them
high-end illicit gun dealers use them
but those people tend to only kill each
other it's not something that the
general populace has to worry about I
know all of this is very fresh in
everybody's mind because of the shooting
but prior to this when was the last time
you heard about one being used they
don't get used very often the most
common illegal use that I'm aware of is
hunting out season because just like the
sniper masking that location makes it
hard for the game warden to find them
that's that's the most common illegal
use that I'm aware of why are they used
legally why do people want literally a
million people have one if you combine
hearing protection and a suppressor you
get below that 85 that 85 decibels
they're used typically by people who
shoot a lot and I mean a lot and this is
an extremely law-abiding crowd these are
the guys that have the Mullen lob a
sticker you know come and take it on
their truck right next to the Thin Blue
Line sticker because they still just
have no idea who's going to come and
take it these are very very law-abiding
people that's who uses you don't you
don't find them in the normal criminal
world very often the next question was
actually this this cracked me up you
changed my opinion of the assault
weapons ban by explaining how easily
they were manufactured at home I looked
it up and found a tutorial of a guy who
made an aka out of a shovel
our suppressors easily manufactured at
home kind of you can make them at home
you can you're not going to achieve the
same quality and you're not going to get
the same decibel reduction that you get
in a commercial one it's it's it's much
harder to make a properly functioning
suppressor than it is a firearm
there are improvised ways to do them
there's a little cheap Trick's
most of them aren't good for more than a
few
and the ones that are good for more than
that the people that know how to make
them they're not telling anybody that's
that's still something that's pretty
closely held in in the in that community
they don't let that secret out and then
the important question I guess would a
band be effective yeah but the reason it
would be effective is probably the
strongest argument anybody's going to be
able to come up with against the man
these are very very law-abiding people
so if they were banned and they were
told they had to turn them in they would
they would and they're registered the
ATF knows they have them it's not like
the bump stock ban where it was just a
piece of plastic or whatever and nobody
knew they had it so they didn't have to
turn it in these suppressors are
registered and I mean the people that
own them will turn them in so in a way
yeah it would be effective but you're
taking them from people who are
extremely long I think that they're not
going to use them in a mass shooting or
in crime in general knowing by the
statistics my understanding is that a
lot of that forty per year are people
who did stuff with the suppressor that
they shouldn't have under the
regulations they didn't store it
properly or they didn't you know stuff
like that
so that's the general a general overview
Oh
now the other question is it necessary
under the intent of the second amendment
depends on how you look at the second
amendment if you look at it the way I do
the purpose of it is to be able to
strike back against the government not
really it's not necessary
could it be helpful in some situations
maybe but there are a whole lot of
people who don't look at the second
amendment that way so that debate is
definitely going to rage now the one
thing that I do want to point out is
that I find it hilarious that Donald
Trump has become more of an advocate for
gun control than Obama ever was anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
night